Syrian official: Obama climbed to the top of the tree, "doesn't know how to get down" Obama sends a letter to the heads of the House and Senate . Obama to seek congressional approval on military action against Syria . Aim is to determine whether CW were used, not by whom, says U.N. spokesman .
Usain Bolt wins third gold of world championship . Anchors Jamaica to 4x100m relay victory . Eighth gold at the championships for Bolt . Jamaica double up in women's 4x100m relay .
The employee in agency's Kansas City office is among hundreds of "virtual" workers . The employee's travel to and from the mainland U.S. last year cost more than $24,000 . The telecommuting program, like all GSA practices, is under review .
NEW: A Canadian doctor says she was part of a team examining Harry Burkhart in 2010 . NEW: Diagnosis: "autism, severe anxiety, post-traumatic stress disorder and depression" Burkhart is also suspected in a German arson probe, officials say . Prosecutors believe the German national set a string of fires in Los Angeles .
Another arrest made in gang rape outside California school . Investigators say up to 20 people took part or stood and watched the assault . Four suspects appeared in court Thursday; three wore bulletproof vests .
Humanitarian groups expect 4,000 refugees in one camp, a U.N. official says . Others have fled across the border to U.N. camps in Liberia, he says . This follows attacks that killed 7 U.N. peacekeepers and 8 civilians .
NEW: 4 groups announce legal challenge in Phoenix . American Civil Liberties Union, ACLU of Arizona, National Immigration Law Center slam law . Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational Fund also objects to it . They say law encourages racial profiling, but supporters say it doesn't involve any illegal acts .
Labor Day is the unofficial end of summer and the unofficial start to campaign season . As much as $3.4 billion could be spent on advertising for this midterm election . Here are five must-follow races for these midterms .
NEW: Autopsy indicates he had been dead for hours before police arrived . YouTube video appears to show the activist bound and blindfolded . The activist and freelance journalist was from the Lombardy region in northern Italy .
The radio personality was taken to a hospital Sunday . Spokesman for hospital says Casey Kasem being treated for wounds, blood pressure issues . He had been at a friend's home in Washington state after his wife took him there . She has been feuding with three stepchildren over the radio icon's care .
